# Super-resolution of images using Deep Learning 


## Motivation

Computer vision algorithms have become an important component of applications we use every day. Major
use-cases include object detection, object classication, and pattern recognition. However, the performance of
such algorithms is dependent on the quality of input data which is mostly pictorial. In practical applications,
often the available pictorial data is of low quality, aected by factors such as low resolution, presence of noise,
etc. Computer vision algorithms used in a surveillance system to perform facial recognition may not perform
well when fed with low-resolution or noisy inputs [1]. Similarly in digital pathology, high-resolution Whole
Slide Images (WSI) are critical for the interpretation of cells and tissues. However, the acquisition of high-
resolution digital slides requires high-end imaging equipment and a long scanning time.

Therefore, this project aims to use state-of-the-art techniques in deep learning to generate high-resolution
images from otherwise low-resolution images to resolve these challenges.

### Dataset

The project specically aims to provide separate deep learning models to perform super-resolution on images
of humans faces and breast cancer histology images respectively. To train and test models for super-resolution
of Human Faces, the project will use fake human faces dataset from Kaggle [3] which contains nearly 5000
images of fake human faces generated by GANs and for super-resolution of Breast Cancer Histology Images,
the project will use BACH dataset from ICIAR 2018 grand challenge which contains nearly 400 H&E stained
breast histology microscopy images. [4].

### Related Work

Conventional methods to increase the resolution of images include interpolation techniques like bilinear,
bicubic, Lanczos, etc. However, results from interpolation can induce undesired hallucination or pixelation
within images. Recent advances in computer vision algorithms enabled using Convolutional Neural Networks
(CNNs) and Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) to perform super-resolution of images which often
yield high-quality results.

## Methodology

### Low Risk

The low risk of the project will be to train and test End-to-End Pixel-2-Pixel CNNs to generate high-resolution images of human faces from corresponding low-resolution images. This approach is self-supervised because during training the low-resolution input images will be produced from ground-truth high-resolution images using various interpolation methods. Figure 1 can be referred to understand this workow. This task will aim to train models to increase the resolution of images by at least 2-4 times. Peak-Signal-to-Noise-
Ratio (PSNR) and Structural similarity index measure (SSIM) [5] will be used to evaluate the performance of models. PSNR and SSIM are usually used to evaluate quality of images.

### Medium Risk
The medium risk of the project will be to train and test End-to-End Pixel-2-Pixel GANs to increase the resolution of breast cancer histology patches. This task is more challenging than performing super-resolution of human faces because training GANs is difficult and the trained model should not hallucinate structures in the patches. PSNR and SSIM will be used to
evaluate the performance of the model. 

### High Risk
The high risk of the project will focus to develop a performant and 
exible python package that will allow other computational researchers and end-users to use pre-trained models. Also, since, the task of super-
resolution of images is domain-specic, therefore the package also aims to allow users to train selected models from scratch on their chosen domain-specic image datasets.

## Impact

Often in practical applications, the available data is of low quality, or acquisition of high-quality data is
expensive and time-consuming. Therefore, using advanced methods in deep learning to improve the quality
of existing data will help to counter these challenges and to improve the performance of existing computer
vision algorithms. Super-resolution of images in the eld of digital pathology will help pathologists to
annotate WSI correctly and effciently.